README.md, before:

# My-Database-Coursework

A simple CRM system built with PHP, MySQL, HTML/CSS/JavaScript — designed to run locally using MAMP.  

## 🚀 Project Purpose  

This project provides a basic Customer Relationship Management (CRM) tool to manage customers, leads, interactions, reminders, and track sales. It was created as a database coursework project to demonstrate relational database design and full-stack web development using PHP and MySQL.

## 📦 Tech Stack & Prerequisites  

- **Backend:** PHP  
- **Frontend:** HTML, CSS, JavaScript  
- **Database:** MySQL  
- **Local development environment:** [MAMP](https://www.mamp.info/) (or any similar Apache + MySQL setup)

## ✅ Features  

- User login / authentication  
- Add, view, update, and delete customer records  
- Manage leads, interactions, and reminders  
- Sales dashboard / admin panel to overview data  
- CRUD operations for all data entities via web interface  

## 🛠️ Installation & Setup  

1. Clone the repository  
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/NikkiCS-AI/My-Database-Coursework.git
2. Start MAMP and ensure Apache + MySQL are running.

3. Create a new MySQL database — for example: crm_db.

4. Import the SQL schema:

- Open the file COMP1044_Database.sql from the repo and run it (via phpMyAdmin or MySQL CLI) to create the necessary tables.

5. Copy the project folder into your MAMP htdocs (or your web root directory).

6. If required, update the database connection settings in the PHP configuration to match your MySQL credentials (username, password, database name).

7. Open your browser and navigate to:
http://localhost/[your-project-folder]/

## 🧭 Usage

Log in (or register) using the provided authentication form.

Use the dashboard/admin panel to manage customers, leads, interactions, reminders, and view sales data.

Perform CRUD operations (Create / Read / Update / Delete) on customer, lead, interaction records via the web interface.

## 📂 Project Structure
/ (root)
├── COMP1044_Database.sql            ← SQL schema for database setup  
├── login.php / login.html           ← Login page for authentication  
├── (other PHP / HTML / JS / CSS files) ← Front-end and backend scripts  
├── admin / dashboard / customer / lead / interaction pages  
└── README.md                        ← This README file  

## 🎯 What I Learned & Motivation

This project helped me to:

Design a relational database schema that handles customers, leads, interactions, and reminders

Implement CRUD operations using PHP & MySQL

Build a full-stack web app with HTML/CSS/JavaScript front-end and PHP back-end

Use local development tools (MAMP) to run a PHP + MySQL project

Commit message:

Enhance README with clearer usage and project structure
Updated usage instructions and project structure section for clarity.

README.md, after:

# My-Database-Coursework

A simple CRM system built with PHP, MySQL, HTML/CSS/JavaScript — designed to run locally using MAMP.  

## 🚀 Project Purpose  

This project provides a basic Customer Relationship Management (CRM) tool to manage customers, leads, interactions, reminders, and track sales. It was created as a database coursework project to demonstrate relational database design and full-stack web development using PHP and MySQL.

## 📦 Tech Stack & Prerequisites  

- **Backend:** PHP  
- **Frontend:** HTML, CSS, JavaScript  
- **Database:** MySQL  
- **Local development environment:** [MAMP](https://www.mamp.info/) (or any similar Apache + MySQL setup)

## ✅ Features  

- User login / authentication  
- Add, view, update, and delete customer records  
- Manage leads, interactions, and reminders  
- Sales dashboard / admin panel to overview data  
- CRUD operations for all data entities via web interface  

## 🛠️ Installation & Setup  

1. Clone the repository  
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/NikkiCS-AI/My-Database-Coursework.git
2. Start MAMP and ensure Apache + MySQL are running.

3. Create a new MySQL database — for example: crm_db.

4. Import the SQL schema:

- Open the file COMP1044_Database.sql from the repo and run it (via phpMyAdmin or MySQL CLI) to create the necessary tables.

5. Copy the project folder into your MAMP htdocs (or your web root directory).

6. If required, update the database connection settings in the PHP configuration to match your MySQL credentials (username, password, database name).

7. Open your browser and navigate to:
http://localhost/[your-project-folder]/

## 🧭 Usage

* Log in (or register) using the provided authentication form.

* Use the dashboard/admin panel to manage customers, leads, interactions, reminders, and view sales data.

* Perform CRUD operations (Create / Read / Update / Delete) on customer, lead, interaction records via the web interface.
 

## 🎯 What I Learned & Motivation

This project helped me to:

* Design a relational database schema that handles customers, leads, interactions, and reminders

* Implement CRUD operations using PHP & MySQL

* Build a full-stack web app with HTML/CSS/JavaScript front-end and PHP back-end

* Use local development tools (MAMP) to run a PHP + MySQL project

## 👤 Author

Nikki
Client–Server Networking Coursework Project (C Socket Programming)
